hello everyone uh i'm gonna be talking
about the uh
improvements we've made to go ipfs in
the zero to five release
this is probably one of the largest
releases we've cut
uh not the most breaking that was
probably 0.4 uh
actually not very breaking at all but it
definitely has the most
like large scale protocol improvements
or at least the most man hours put into
it
um okay first up we've made a bunch of
change
improvements to content routing uh
content routing is uh
the logic has around like announcing
content to the network and then finding
content in the network
uh the main thing we use for this is
something called the dht distributed
hash table
um we've made a bunch of improvements
here to massively increase performance
and reduce
some overhead uh connection forming and
stuff like that
uh so one big improvement here was
cleaning up the dhc
in this release we're using a tool we
call autonet
to determine their nodes will use this
tool to determine if they are publicly
reachable
and if they are not publicly reachable
they will like drop off the dhc they'll
still be able to use the dhc
they just won't like ask other peers to
give them or to send queries their way
because no one can actually reach them
in the previous dc what happened is
peers would join the network
um and then other people start routing
queries their way
but these these peers were not reachable
so like 95 to 99 percent
of queries would just fail or time out
because you couldn't actually reach the
period
you're trying to reach um
so uh in addition to this we've also uh
improved the routing table management
quite a bit um in previous releases if
you disconnected from here you would
sort of forget they existed or at least
you're moving around a table
uh for a cottage here the branding table
is kind of like instead of fingers into
the network for
routing around the network and finding
the content you're looking for um really
it allows you like jump across the
network closer and closer and closer to
content
but if you don't properly maintain these
tables it means that like a query that
would normally
like sort of like uh take uh
a logarithmic size the network time to
complete could take like
linear and size that we're kind of
completely walk around that we're going
to rank
um so yeah we've massively uh improved
round table maintenance such that like
prairie time should actually be
logarithmic in the size of the network
uh these two unfortunately these two
features here
will only really benefit users once the
network upgrades
so please please please upgrade your
nodes and tell your friends to upgrade
your nodes
as people upgrade the entire network
should be faster
finally uh we could look up algorithm uh
this will actually uh help nodes who are
upgrading now even when the rest of the
network hasn't upgraded
um where basically the previous kindle
project we had um
we keep on searching and searching and
searching and searching and searching
um mostly because like we had these like
poorly maintained wrapping tables and we
had a bunch of unbelievable peers so you
kind of get stuck in corners networking
and like backtrack really far and then
go
back and search more and like keep on
searching uh we've made a bunch of
movements like how we handle parallelism
in the writing table
or sorry in the query logic and because
we also improved the uh the writing
table logic
we've been able to like be less
pessimistic in our query logic
um this has led to a three to four x
reduction in uh
dials and a massive improvement in uh
provide times uh so
how do we test this well uh this is
actually a big problem for us we're like
we want to make a bunch of changes to
the dht
but we can easily test like query side
changes like we can say like well like
are we
making like our queries to the network
uh completing in less time
um the problem is it's really hard to
test like um
i guess server side changes on the live
network uh because like we can't just
tell everyone hey please upgrade
immediately
or please like test this new thing um so
we built a testing system
called test ground it allows us to make
basically arbitrary distributed system
tests
uh we'd use this for a bit swap now use
it for gossip sub
use it for uh or use it for the dht uh
this allows
to spin up like a thousand to two
thousand nodes uh in
a virtualized environment uh with
realistic network latencies
um and actually say hey does this dht
work um
so these results are preliminary um
these are results from testing so
they're not
going to match the real world however at
the scales we are testing
uh we are seeing the access provided
times in the ddhd we're 20 to 30 times
faster than the old dhc again this is in
a testing environment you're not gonna
see this in the real network
uh definitely not now and you're
probably not gonna see it quite as good
when it's a full network upgrades
but it'll start approximately a lot
closer to this
but the the multiplier should be about
accurate
not the absolute five times though um
the fine times got to be around like
two to six times faster
and the ips get times got around five
times faster in the new logic
so yeah made a lot of improvements there
um so does this actually show up in the
real network yes
uh so even though most network is
upgraded we're already seeing massive
improvements
again we're seeing uh like in the upper
left-hand corner here you can see
uh they provide uh like dials plus
queries have gone down a lot well
the number of queries hasn't but like
the number of extraneous dials making
the network have
massively produced this should reduce
the chattiness of the network the amount
of bandwidth overhead
just a matter of like load on the
network in general uh in the upper right
hand corner
um you can see uh the uh
a graph of like queries that complete
you can see that basically you've just
gone from like 60 uh percent
provide queries to like area and um uh
95 or 90 uh find queries to 100 both
sides
uh in the bottom left-hand corner you
can see the provide times how they
basically gone from effect like
on the left-hand side you're saying
they're actually timing out there those
red lines or timeouts
um on the right they're actually
completing they take a while uh this
will get better as the network upgrades
and as we make more improvements but
they're actually finishing which is nice
and the content writing fine times have
been massively reduced
in terms of the actual like reduction in
fine times um the 50th percentile
uh has reduced from like eight seconds
to around one second at this point
um or one and a half seconds sometimes
uh the 90th percentile has roots from
like 40 something seconds
to 10 to 14 seconds uh these numbers are
highly variable they're like uh
i'm trying to average this out over like
many many days so in this case
i guess a week of date at this point um
and these numbers i'm seeing
uh these numbers also get a lot better
as the network upgrades
um and we're making more improvements uh
but
we're already like very happy with these
numbers they're sorry we're not happy
with these numbers
we are happy with the improvements we've
made we want to get much much better
um but yeah this is a start
okay uh the next big change we've made
in this really is content is in the
context change this will have a large
impact for uh pinning services
um because uh
like basically like
any wasted bandwidth um in our context
change particles like bitswap
uh costs money um uh and
like if anything if bitswap is slow
people think oh well
this is slow and they don't want to use
fps they don't use bing services
uh so we made a couple of very large
improvements here
um one is in terms of like uh time
defense the actual performance
um we basically you've massively
improved performance
for fetching for multiple peers um
uh or like basically bitswap is better
at like
sharing bandwidth and pulling from
multiple sources at once and like
actually getting
the proper speed ups uh in the past like
it would get some speed up and pulling
from multiple peers uh
but like not nearly as much uh you can
look at this graph later
uh second of all in terms of um wasted
or duplicate blocks we've basically gone
to zero that red line at the bottom is
the new
bit swap the blue line so the old bit
swap uh you could say basically like
as we're ready squares we're just not
seeing duplicate blocks now
um when you start increasing the latency
uh we do start to see some people's
blocks we've hit some timeouts
internally
in the next release we've added a
feature to better estimate these
timeouts
so uh you should see even fewer
duplicate blocks um
but yeah we've made a bunch of
improvements here uh
graph sync okay so uh graphsync is this
new fancy protocol
that lets us request an entire dag all
at once instead of
requesting each individual block so if
it's swapped like you say i want this
block with this block above this block
um but this means you know a lot of
round trips and if you want to like
stream a bunch of data all at once
graphic looks like you like describe the
subset of the data you want and
pull it all in um unfortunately like uh
we haven't like because basically we
have inside of graphs it just does that
where it pulls all the data in
and like spends spits the data out but
we have not completed the um like
the rest of the smarts around graph sync
so they can actually pick which peers
wants to download from
split requests across peers resume
requests all that kind of stuff
so in this release we don't have
photographs and support instead we have
graphic
server side support what this means is
that an ips node
can serve data over graph sync to
some other node not necessarily ipfs but
some liberty p node
um that has graph sync client-side
support
so what does this mean for pinning
services um well
uh if you want to speed up like fetching
data
from people trying to pin data and you
know their peer id
you can quite easily build a tool they
just like
get exactly put up here and they use
graph sync to suck up all the data
this is assuming the user has enabled
this experiment this is not enabled by
default you know
it might be defaulted in a future
release but assuming they've enabled it
or you've told them to enable it you
just suck up all the dates and graph
sync
if you want an example of this tool
there's an example in the codefest repo
in the tests you can just read the code
there
uh so yeah we're hoping that eventually
we'll have like full graphs and support
which should
uh improve performance of data exchange
and ipfs in general
not quite the area we've made a pretty
big step here
okay uh next up import and export uh
this is how you get data in and out of
ipas and made a couple improvements
again very important finding services um
uh first up uh we've improved ad
performance
uh on batcher specifically uh so uh
badger is like the next gen data store
we're trying to switch to
um we've been slowly sort of digging
through
uh uh bugs and like regressions in it
and
like trying to sum down a list of issues
we have
we're almost there we have a couple
remaining issues we're hoping to get
this out in 0.6 the next release as
the like the stable uh by default um
sorry it's like the the by default data
store um
however in this release we've we're
saying okay it's stable
at least uh so we're recommending that
people try it out um
if you look at the bottom right hand
corner here you can see the performance
of badger versus
flight fs versus battery in this release
[Music]
badger uh in this release is now on par
with um at least on disk
is on par with like reading the file off
the disk and then adding or
uh or it's on par with copying a file
from one location just to another
location on the desk basically
so it's not quite as fast as like
fetching the data from the network and
then writing to the disk because you
um we're using some of the disk io to
read the data from the same disk
uh but for most users if you're just
trying to add data to ipfs it should be
just as fast you're at databases is to
copy a directory uh
yeah uh second up uh we have
uh improv or sorry we've added some
commands for importing exporting tags
or sorry uh ipd dags that is like
entire directory trees or like arbitrary
idealty data structures
um previously to do this like you have
to like
fetch the data out of bfs into a set of
directories and then re-import the data
or like pull out individual blocks and
then react them or like move around to
data sources like this
uh now you can just give my cid and just
pull out this archive of
like this entire like graph of data and
then re-import it into ipfs
the cool part here for pinging services
is like this is a great way like uh if
you need to get a bunch of data from a
user you can literally have them
like run ifis tag export uh export to a
hard drive mail you the hard drive then
you just import that
ipfs that's probably the fastest way to
move data around to this point in ibms
uh or just in general on the internet
because like shipping hard drives is
faster than the internet
um uh so uh yeah if you if you have
users they just need to like
give you a ton of data um this is an
option
uh okay finally um i have a bunch of uh
heads up
for like people running activists and
infrastructure
first up um we've enabled a service
called autonet by default autonet is
again that service we're using to
improve the dhd
to allow nodes to determine if they're
dialed or not
the heads up here is that nodes will now
help other nodes determine if they're
available by default um
if it's an issue you can turn it off in
the config the documentation godfs repo
but this is a very limited service we
don't expect it'll be problematic
but like if you don't want your node to
like perform any extraneous styles
uh then you could turn this off please
don't because you hope you're helping
the network by leaving it on uh
but just heads up uh second of all
we switched to tls as the default
transport um
uh this like will basically give us like
a better secure transport with better or
uh better understood
security properties uh it's generally
faster actually a lot faster uh
than our previous uh transport psycho
uh however there's no open still support
we have an open issue for this um
uh this is open bounty on it um
uh yeah so like this does mean that like
as people upgrade you may see
an increase in uh cpu usage because open
ssl's
um uh uh open the cells are
simplification is much much better than
goes
um and secure has open ssl support so
like if you've been building open
secondary with open ssl support uh
then like yeah you may see that some
more cpu usage from tls
connections yeah just just a hands-up uh
subpoena gateways uh you can read more
about this um
uh i believe in the blog at this point
um
i'm not sure if we focus on blog posts
yet uh but
yeah this lets us like put the uh
the cid or the domain name or the ips
key
in the subdomain so it gives every um
ips site a a separate origin um
uh this is uh like yeah this is just
generally important for like running
writing dapps in ibfs this affects
um uh your infrastructure um
because like you may change how you run
your gateway uh to probably support some
different origins
uh finally we made some improvements to
the daemon uh one embedded system d
support
um uh uh so like uh we now support the
system
notification api and socket activation
this is useful if you're trying to like
start knife
automatically or like order dependencies
um yeah and we've made it so that you
can serve the api over domain socket
for improved security uh we've also
there's also two migrations in this
release they are very minor
um they're just moving some things
around like fixing some config
values but just heads up if you upgrade
um and you automatically migrate your
node will have to go and download the
migrations
on upgrade uh to like make these small
changes to the repo
so just plan for that um and there's a
ton more but i am
definitely out of time so you can read
over the slides
later
do i have time for questions you do if
anyone has questions for stephen stick
them in the q
a or in the chat your your one question
is
people want the link to your slides
later uh
i can send that out
i also recommend that you read the
release notes they include
everything here and in more detail
uh the answer to that is encrypted on
top of private forms is yes
uh yeah the underlying so um with a
private swarm uh we'll encrypt the
connection first with the
the swarm key um uh then tls will be
like
on top of that encryption or sorry i
guess underneath that encryption
we'll encrypt the cls and then we'll
encrypt this the question is uh can we
disable tls to point cpu usage uh
we do not have a flag to disable tls in
this release
because we were planning on switching to
the new tls version
if you have not been manually compiling
your nodes with uh like
dash tags equals openssl
you will actually should actually notice
a decrease in cpu usage
it's only if you've been explicitly
compiling your nodes with open sl
support if this might happen
and this is only as node's upgrade the
question from cody is
what is some of the history behind
stuccio versus tls
oh um that's complicated
i don't actually know a lot of it um uh
i know that now we initially looked at
using tls
but tls was like so tied up with
um what one like the original theos
particles took many round trips second i
think to fewer i believe i'm not trying
to train you don't check that
um second of all like tls was so tied up
with the ci system
you wanted a system that was simpler
easy to understand
uh and not tied up with the cia system
tls.3
uh mixed fair number improvements here
uh it even technically supports like uh
like dropping certifications entirely we
don't do that toward
like um better interoperability with
other tls stacks
um yeah sorry i don't know the full
history there i think a good summary
then i think we can move on